Chapter 7: Deployment

Is there an optimal way to replace the current economic system with a newer, and possibly, better, economic system? If there is one, how can we know it? Please, take a moment to think about the best possible way we can deploy Rewardism. Who might oppose Rewardism, and more importantly, why? What should we be aware of when trying to replace the older system? Please, save your answers, and contribute to the deployment of Rewardism, when the time is right.

1) Preliminary

“We have changed the world so much, that it’s high time to interpret it.” — Slavoj Žižek

Is it not possible that I am unaware of some flaws in my reasoning? Perhaps, what I consider best for everyone, or what I think leads to advancement, might actually be the reason for our downfall and misery. How can I be aware of my fallacies? The answer is “constructive criticism” — not just being aware of the fallacies of others but also appreciating criticism of my own ideas and arguments.
Before you make an investment, start a career, or take any important decision, what is it that you do so carefully? To decide responsibly, first, you have to process whatever data is available to get some useful information; then, you have to deeply analyze and evaluate that information. You have to consider as many significant possibilities as you can, weigh your options, and think about all the ways it can go wrong.
Does it not make sense to know exactly what the change should be *before* we put in the effort to bring about that change? So, in the Preliminary Stage, the main goal is to optimize Rewardism such that the balance between its risks and rewards becomes optimal, and to communicate the final version of it so that those putting in the effort know exactly what the change will be.
This preliminary stage is of the utmost importance as, if all goes well, most of the problems associated with Rewardism will be dealt with before it goes live, making it easier for it to outperform previous economic systems. If this stage is executed properly, people will trust Rewardism more because they will know that it has been optimized, and, recall from the previous chapter, that too by the most talented individuals.
One significant risk is *misunderstanding*. People might not really understand Rewardism, and so, they might have irrational fears. The documentation of the new system is crucial for properly dealing with this risk, as this means higher transparency, and better communication of the significant details of Rewardism. Without a clear document explaining what exactly is Rewardism, the public will be left in the dark.

1A) Rewardism: The Initial Draft
The whole documentation process shall be divided in to three stages. The first stage shall last about 2 years. At this stage, only the most talented ten individuals shall accompany me in preparing the initial draft. Our team shall represent the WRMO. The Initial Draft is to comprehensively explain the general version of Rewardism. The essential features of it, without which the system cannot be called Rewardism, shall be included in the explanation.
Details like how the base standard of living will be set, and how necessities will be distinguished from luxuries shall be included in the draft. To gain the public’s trust, and therfore, to get better colaboration in the next stages, the draft is to include a detailed comparison of Rewardism, Communism and Capitalism. This comparison is to be complimented by significant reasons for adopting Rewardism.

1B) Rewardism: The Mezzanine Drafts
The second stage shall last about 3 years. Each region, where Rewardism is to be deployed, shall have its own Mezzanine Draft. Once we have a general version of Rewardism to present to the key players in each region, their concerns must be understood and accounted for. The significance of some key players, and therefore, their concerns, is directly proportional to their ability to affect, both positively and negatively, the deployment of Rewardism. Highest preference shall be given to the concerns of the most significant entity.
There is a possibility that some entities might not trust the new digital currency, or they might think of Rewardism as some sort of scam. To manage the significant risk of mistrust, highly influential people shall be invited to criticize the draft relevant to them, and their reasonable ideas shall be used to improve it. A nod of their approval can significantly strengthen the public’s trust in Rewardism. With the support of both, the influential ones, and the key players, deployment shall be quite smooth.

1C) Rewardism: The Final Documents
The final stage shall last about 5 years. With the Mezzanine Drafts available to the general public, some platform shall be given to individuals to give their suggestions. This final stage will be the most difficult, as, with so many entities involved, the chances of conflict of interest would be high. The main goal is to finalize the specific versions of Rewardism such that the risk of opposition is optimally managed. To achieve this goal, preference given to a suggestion shall be based on how influential or reputable the suggester is.
To avoid any power struggle, the documents are to clearly dictate the powers the WRMO shall have in the relevant regions. To conclude the final stage of documentation, all Final Documents are to be approved by the relevant authorities. Here, it should be noted that the *final* document does not mean that there will be no improvements in the future. There shall be *patches* in the future, accompanied by *patch notes*. Equipped with a good understanding of what exactly the change has to be, and the approval of the authorities, we shall move on to the planning phase.

2) Planning
Just knowing what the change should be is not enough, as we also need to know *how* to bring about that change. For this purpose, a proper plan shall be made which is to consider all possible and significant risks, provide practical solutions to manage them, and guide the executors of the plan. The best planners are those who understand the risks, and have the expertise to manage them. Risk management includes the ability to take reasonable risks, as opposed to just avoiding risks.
It is at this stage that the heads of all the divisions of the WRMO shall be hired. They shall be responsible for the aspects of the planning that relate to their respective division. Obviously, successful planning requires the joint efforts of all the key players in the WRMO. Without collaboration, the plan is unlikely to be well-synchronized, and one head might want to lead the executors in one direction, while another head might wish otherwise. So, a “Chief Head” shall be responsible for synchronizing the different aspects of the plan.

The planning documents can be categorized broadly into two main categories: the General Plan; and the Specific Plans.

2A) The General Plan
This document shall mainly be about how the WRMO is to be fully formed, and how it shall start fulfilling its responsibilities. This shall include details starting from the hiring of talent, and ending at the verification of each product and service being up to standard. This document is to be prepared with a risk-based approach, so it shall highlight the optimal level of risk the WRMO shall take, and include appropriate control procedures for the management of risk.
In the “Q&A” chapter, I wrote that ideas about debt-erasing shall be found in the “Deployment” chapter, so, let us look into debt-erasing now. The plan for erasing debt shall be written in the General Plan as this task relates to every Rewardist region. Do you have any practical idea for erasing debt? First, let us try to understand what exactly the problem is. If you think about it, this is more a matter of human psychology than any other matter.
We do not need to appeal to the *good side* of the lenders, which seems impractical, especially with significantly large debt involved, nor do we need to adopt any violent way, which might defeat the whole purpose of erasing debt. Why go through all that trouble when you can simply reward the lenders for lending their capital? Knowing that an international organization is committed to keeping the RPs stable and valuable, the lenders are highly likely to be satisfied with getting their capital back in the newer, and likely better, currency.
What I am suggesting is, if there is reasonable evidence that an entity A is owed 1M USD by entity B, since, initially the USD RP will be pegged to the USD, the entity A can be rewarded with 1M USD RPs, which is likely to satisfy entity A, and shall remove the debt from entity B, all without any violence or begging. The plan has to include ways to manage any related risks. For example, the risk of rejection of RPs due to fear of devaluation can be managed by promising a compensation for any devaluation in five years.

2B) The Specific Plans
Each Rewardist region shall have its own “Specific Plan” which shall explain how Rewardism is to be deployed there. Each document shall include details starting from the hiring of workers within the relevant region, and ending at the verification of Rewardism running smoothly within that region. Furthermore, each document shall include appropriate control procedures for controlling the risks associated with deployment.
Laying out the plan in terms of easy-to-understand, achievable, and challenging objectives is likely to make it easier for the executors to follow the plan. The objectives set shall reflect the specific version of Rewardism to be deployed. Deadlines and performance-based rewards for the executors shall be set at the planning stage to motivate them to work dilligently and with high integrity.

3) Development
Following the instructions given in the General Plan, the different products and services to be provided by the WRMO shall be developed for testing purposes. At this stage, a Specific Plan would only be relevant to the extent of the development of products and services specific to the relevant region. In other words, those involved in the development shall have to be aware of the requirements specific to different regions. Being aware of the individual requirements of all the different regions, and acting accordingly, is paramount to the success of Rewardism in every Rewardist region.

4) Examination
Once we have developed the required products and services, we must examine them, one last time, to avoid problems later on. The General Plan, the specific versions of Rewardism, and the plans for deploying them have to be examined too to identify all significant issues, so that they can be resolved. The public is likely to trust Rewardism, and the WRMO, more if they know that significant thoughts and efforts have been put in to examining it. Let us look into an example of an issue, and how to resolve it.

*The Issue*: An individual might incentivise another to claim to owe money to him, to exploit the debt-rewarding scenario. This risk is high among individuals from villages due to a lack of availability of bank statements.
*The Solutions*: The assets of individuals, of value up to the total of the debt claimed to be owed, shall be seized to prevent false claims. Making false claims shall be made a punishable offence. In absence of reliable evidence, further investigation shall be due before debt can be cleared. In case of significant doubt, no RPs shall be given. Record-keeping shall be made compulsory for audits. Whistleblowing shall be facilitated.

5) Execution
How easily Rewardism is effectively deployed, depends on the quality of the documents, the executors, and the overseers. Optimal performance in the previous stages shall add to the efficiency at the Execution stage. The main point of concern at this stage shall be whether *everything goes according to plan*. It seems unlikely that everything shall have been planned for, so the main skill needed for proper execution is the ability to quickly and effectively respond to anomolies.

6) Verification
After the Execution stage, it naturally makes sense to verify whether Rewardism has been properly deployed. The verifiers shall heavily depend on the control procedures set within the relevant documents. These control procedures shall cover a broad range of functions of the new system. Succesful verification shall imply that all the significant functions of Rewardism are live. This stage cannot be marked completed unless all procedures, including getting the public’s approval, are done. Improving Rewardism shall be a continuous process, small issues shall not stop this stage from being marked completed.

7) Endgame
I do not expect all countries to accept Rewardism initially. Some countries might wish to see its effects on other countries first, while those other countries lead the way through uncharted waters. If the deployment of Rewardism in those other countries is verified, and it proves useful for them, then it is natural to expect a demand for Rewardism in other regions. Interestingly, while competition between countries is not unheard of, a new kind of competition shall rise: That between economic systems. Whatever happens, Rewardism can be deemed successful in the Endgame if it becomes the system for the galaxies and the millennia to come.
