Chapter 4: Rewardism

* The System *

You probably have a lot of questions like, "Will I be able to own property?", "Will I have to pay my employees?", "Will there be taxes?", "What if I don't work at all?", "How does one become wealthier?", etc. Instead of answering these questions one by one, perhaps it is more practical to give you an idea of what life would be like for an employee, public official, employer, a self-employed person and an unemployed person under Rewardism.

Employee:

Your mother makes an emergency call to the nearest hospital as she's in labor. The ambulance arrives in no time and 2 ladies help her board the vehicle. Upon reaching the hospital, she is rushed to the delivery room. You are born. After your mother has rested, they find out that she doesn't have an ID card because she forgot it in all the hassle. "No matter," says the nurse, comforting your mother. She uses your mother's fingerprints and ID number to record the activity "delivery".

Your details are entered and an account for you is made in the international registery. Your new "Necessities Points" Card is delivered to your mother. Before leaving the hospital, your mother uses your new NP Card to buy the necessities, which include medicines, diapers, food, water, etc., for you. The points get burned out of your account and the activity is recorded in both your and the pharmacy's account. Your account is linked to your guardian, in this case your mother, until you become an adult.

At each of your birthday, you receive more NPs than usual. Your mother uses these extra points to buy a little baby cart for you. Again, the activity is recorded in both the relevant accounts and the points are burned away from your account. Until you turn 7, you live in the same house, same room with your mother. She remains unemployed for the whole duration. Public officials make surprise visits occasionally to see how well your mother is treating you, according to which she receives some "Reward Points".

When you turn 7, you and your mother move to a house with 2 rooms near a school. You enroll there and your mother starts teaching too. For enrollment, your ID card and fingerprints are used, your mother's consent is taken too. Any necessities such as books and stationary are provided by the school. Your mother then views your performance, along with the rest of your activity, in "The App". After each semester, you rate the performance of your teachers. They receive RPs according to their performance.

According to your performance and behavior, you are given a few RPs to keep you motivated. You decide to save some of them until you become an adult so that you can afford exploring, comfortably, your favorite parts of the world. Over the years you use your IDC, and sometimes fingerprint too, for travelling, communicating, cleaning and other free necessitie, your NPs for limited necessities and your RPs for luxuries such as toys, hotels, cinemas, etc. And so, life goes on. You experience, you learn and grow.

When you turn 16, your performance and interests over the year, along with the predicted future needs, are taken into account to help you decide your major. Until you turn 18, you prepare for examinations and interviews which will decide if you are a good fit. It turns out that you fail the interviews. You are asked to take a leap year or choose a different major. You take a leap year and ace the interviews on your second try. You choose your favorite professors and the interviewer records the activity using your IDC and fingerprints.

Just like in school, your and your professors' performance is recorded semiannually, RPs are given accordingly and necessities are available for free or for NPs. When you graduate, you have no burden of student loan. Talent managers help you utilize your talents and time to solve problems, fulfill demands, earn RPs and possibly a "Higher Status", according to your performance and other factors like supply and demand. "What higher status?," you ask. "Well, it is a way of respecting the noble minds," they reply.

"You see, not everything can be bought using RPs. Some exclusive rewards are for those who solve, or can solve, the biggest problems, who are too valuable to live among the ordinary and who have special needs. In other words, "Higher Beings" are given a "Higher Status" to highlight, protect and facilitate them," explains the senior manager. You look for the biggest problems to be solved and the ways to minimize suffering. You inform a talent manager that you would like to work alongside further studies.

At age 25, equipped with some experience and a lot of knowledge, you set out into the world to help and to benefit. You get a job offer from a foreign company, so you inform a talent manager and your mother. Not wanting to leave her friends and culture, your mother asks you to go on your own. Your talent manager helps you get all the required documents ready and get you to your destination without having to spend any RP. You are registered as an employee and your hours, role, etc., are recorded.

Semiannually, based on your and  your employers' performance and reviews for each other, both of you are rewarded. The company is treated as a separate entity for all legal and rewarding reasons. The reward is not given by the employer; it is automatically calculated and transferred by computers. The human interference in the rewarding process is almost zero. As your responsibility and significance increases, your reward also increases due to the increase in "Reward Factor", which is set according to the significance of the job.

You work and grind your way up the corporate ladder. You start living a more luxurious life, burning away your RPs while saving some for the more expensive luxuries of life. Other companies start sending you offers. You realize that the RPs will be more or less the same so the real factors are the work to be done, the environment and the reviews of the companies. For these reasons, the companies highlight the significance and challenges of the work to be done, the comfort level provided by them and customer reviews.

"The roles are set such that a change in role cannot be given until a certain years of study and/or experience is recorded. So, to become an executive officer, you must be a Bachelor with fifteen years of experience or a Master with twelve," explains the HR manager at the company where you work. "So, you cannot promote me, even if you wanted to?," you ask. "Yes, promoting, like rewarding, is automatic," she answers, "however, we cannot even stop you from being promoted. We can just leave reviews."

You adopt a child from a registered organization, you are registered as the child's guardian and the child's account is linked to you. Every now and then, surprise visits are made by public officials to investigate any issues. If the child is happy with you, you are rewarded. You enroll her into a local school and take care of her needs. You realize you are unable to give her proper time so you hire a nanny and approve her employment recording. You both review each other, on the basis of which you are both rewarded.

You have paid leaves according to your role, which you utilize to spend more time with your child. You burn your RPs to go explore the world with her, enjoy life and reduce suffering. You go visit your mother and introduce your daughter to her. Your mother informs you that she has a terminal illness. You decide to take a break from your career to spend more time with your little family. So, your mother lives the last year of her life with you and her granddaughter. Your daughter joins a school there in the standard way.

An inheritance manager consoles you and guides you that some part of her property she inherited from her father, so you will not be able to inherit that. "The property she earned herself will be inheritable," he adds. You realize that you two started off owning almost nothing, so the non-inheritable property should be neglibile. "Quite so," he confirms. The property she inherited was just a small piece of land in a village. "The government will handle that now," he explains, referring to the small piece of land.

You sell your mother's house, car and some possessions. You take her books and medals with you back to the country where you worked. They continue your employment and you now work as an executive. Your daughter moves to another state to study. Now that she is an adult, you no longer have access to her activity except for the activity you have already seen. Having enough RPs to own a property like a residential building, a commercial building, etc., you start purchasing properties.

At age 55, on having completed the 25 years of experience required and being 50+, you finally retire. Your daughter says she wants to be a public official because of the significance of such jobs. You tell her it is really her life and whatever makes her happy makes you happy. You realize that with the level of experience and knowledge you have now, you have a chance of earning that "Higher Status". So, you start researching and discussing ideas with other retired friends.

At age 70, you accumulate a lot of awards and rewards for your continuous efforts, however, you fail to achieve the "Higher Status". You tell yourself that at least you tried and your efforts will help reduce suffering. In your final years, you live with your daughter and use most of your RPs for her, although you remain the owner of the assets bought. You use "The App" to see all your lifetime activity including all your transactions, your performance and all the rewards given to you. Death.

Public Official:

RPs equivalent to the value of property your father inherited from his mother are burned away. The rest of the RPs in his account and the properties he owned are transferred to you. The instance of inheritance, along with all the relevant calculations and transactions, is clearly recorded in both your and your father's account; his account is archived. You use most of the RPs inherited for refurbishment of his house so that it can be made available as a luxury home.

You register the other properties as commercial properties. This way, the commercial use of properties and the residential use of the luxury home, both, provide a stream of RPs for you. Passive income, you may call it. Asset management specialists help you identify the ideal candidates who can best utilize the assets. They get their RPs like usual. The users of these properties, the points burned and other details of the transactions are clearly recorded in the relevant accounts.

"Mommy, what exactly is your job?" asks your daughter. "Well, you see dear, not everyone in this world gets their reward fairly and honestly. Mommy's job is to find the bad guys who cheat and exploit. But that's not all, some companies hurt our little world and the people in it, Mommy's gotta stop them from hurting us. So really, Mommy's gotta take care of the world by ensuring people earn their luxuries fairly and sustainably," you answer. "Sustainably?" "Keeping the future in mind."

"What about your friends?" she inquires. "Well, my elderly friend is a judge who decides who is the most deserving among the desirers of an asset. My other friend deals with people who want to start a new company. She analyzes and evaluates their business plan and decides whether it is a good idea to give them access to resources," you answer. "And what if she rejects?" "Well, she has to give her reasons. People then build a better plan or challenge the reasons in court." 

"Or give up?" she asks with a mischievous grin. You laugh. In daylight you audit suspected people and companies, reporting the findings to the local magistrate. At night you study "Decision Making in the Modern World", so that one day you can responsibly decide who should access resources. On finishing your studies, you start spending more time evaluating business proposals instead of chasing after people. You get rewarded according to your role and the performance objectives you meet.

Sometimes you get annoyed by the shallowness and stupidity, at other times you get amazed by the ideas presented. "We already have ten companies supplying that product, meeting the highest standards; another company would be redundant, especially when there are other needs to be fulfilled," you explain to some. The exceptional ideas are highlighted and brought to the attention of the presiding officer every now and then. And so, budgets are set, people are enabled and resources are utilized.

Employer:

"Mother, I would like to know what a winning business proposal is like, so that I can get funded," you tell your mother. "Well dear, as far as the winning proposals I have seen in my life, they all seem to have one thing in common. They all solved some problem, no matter how big or small, but a real problem. If you can identify a problem that has yet to be solved, and if you can clearly explain how you intend to solve that problem, I think you should be fine," your mother answers.

"I've heard you mention the significance of the team when rejecting an application," you mention. "Of course, a good team can turn a poor idea to a working one but a bad team can do nothing, even with the best idea," she adds. "So, how exactly do they decide if my team is good or bad?" "Well dear, they look at their education, experience and responses to interview questions. If they seem like individuals capable of making the idea work, then normally the plan is accepted."

"There's also the demand that has to be researched. If people are not really interested in burning their RPs for the product or service offered, then there is really no point in continuing. Normally, this is not a point of concern for those with a great idea. However, marketing can become another challenge to be overcome," she adds. "So, identify a problem, come up with a practical solution, come up with a team of capable individuals and market your idea. Correct?" "Quite so."

You come up with a business plan, accounting for the tips given by your mother, which gets reviewed by several people, not including your mother. Your company gets registered. The funds are transferred to the company's account, and you and the CFO are given access to it. To make transactions easier, you both get a "Budget Points" Card each. The points given in the first year of some years are normally more than the points given in other years to allow investment in assets.

All transactions, reviews, employees, remaining budget and all relevant details are found in "The App." Accounting is done automatically for each and every transaction. So, those in the finance department do not have to worry about data entry; instead, they focus on frugality. Nobody has to worry about payroll. The HR department focuses on the well-being, productivity and legal matters of employees. The amount of RPs earned by a company are automatically calculated on the basis of:

- the level of activity (amount of RPs or NPs burned or number of IDCs scans)
- whether BPs burned are less than the level of activity
- reviews given by customers, employees and suppliers
- rewarding factor for the industry the company is in (according to the significance of the industry)
- rate of meeting relevant standards

You do not have to worry about profits as long as the level of activity covers the BPs allotted. To verify whether the expenses are not more than the "revenue" (the level of activity), the relevant principles of accounting are used. For instance, instead of the whole cost of asset purchased, just the depreciation expense is used for performance evaluation purposes. If BPs burned are more than the revenue, then this is seen as an inability to meet costs, which affects RPs earned.

The RPs earned by a company in an accounting period are automatically transferred to the shareholders. Owning 75% of the shares, you get 75% of the RPs. The employees owning the rest of the 25% get their RPs accordingly. "So this is how dividends work," you think.





























