<RD>

CAPITALISM: 

* The Cons *

// * Most profitable line might not be most ethical or useful line; it is just the most profitable line and that's all we can say. Fulfilling people's demands is not necessarily a good thing, their demands can be destructive in nature. Therefore, the seller is attracted to increase his wealth in a way which might prove harmful to the world. 

 “The interest of [businessmen] is always in some respects different from, and even opposite to, that of the public ... The proposal of any new law or regulation of commerce which comes from this order ... ought never to be adopted, till after having been long and carefully examined ... with the most suspicious attention. It comes from an order of men ... who have generally an interest to deceive and even oppress the public” {highlight the point that the interests are not aligned}

// The corrupting nature of wealth and power is what makes it difficult to be and remain “enlightened”. 

// Capitalism makes it easy for the rich to influence governance.  

// Cash can be easily transferred between people which allows people to bribe others and make officials make decisions according to their wishes. It, therefore, interferes in the decision-making process and makes it easy for the wealthy to manipulate others using the cash incentive. Cash acts as an incentive to give up on morals, principles and even basic reasoning skills, it then leads to bad decisions and thus acts as a cause for some serious bad effects for the society and the world in general. (Environment, etc.) *Give reference to how good men can do terrible things just for the sake of their family’s wellbeing. 

// The argument that, without regulation, some retailers might dupe customers into buying things they do not need is a specious one. For example, it is not the widespread prevalence of alehouses that causes people to drink to excess. Rather it is the disposition to drink that gives employment to the alehouses. 

! The rich are always willing to exchange their surplus for luxuries and the poor are equally willing to supply this demand in order to get the basics that they need by way of exchange. {link this with lack of freedom and the weird things people have to do to get their basic needs fulfilled} 

- Resources are available to those who can afford them and not necessarily to those who can best utilize them.  

-“Wherever there is great property there is great inequality. For one very rich man there must be at least five hundred poor, and the affluence of the few supposes the indigence of the many. The affluence of the rich excites the indignation of the poor, who are often both driven by want, and prompted by envy, to invade his possessions.”

 // Cash's source is pretty much untraceable, which allows people to achieve it by illegal means without getting caught, giving rise to illegal activities for the sake of accumulating wealth. 
 
! There are a few workers who own all the stock needed for their own production activities, but this is uncommon. Usually, workers are employees of other people, who own productive assets. How the product is shared, then, is a matter of contract between workers and employers: but the employers usually have the upper hand. Since there are fewer of them, they can combine more easily to rig the labour market and keep down wages. They have greater resources with which to sit out a trade dispute. And while the law forbids combinations of workers, the collusion of employers is everywhere. 

! Struggling merely to survive, they have no time or energy to spend thinking about public policy. And the voice of the common people does not carry far in the public debate. 

! The fewer people who are allowed to practice in a particular trade, the more they can charge for their services. And the professions have exploited this by promoting various rules governing apprenticeships. 

! "People of the same trade seldom meet together, even for merriment and diversion, but the conversation ends in a conspiracy against the public, or in some contrivance to raise prices." 

! The search of treasure is an uncertain and ruinous exercise. 

! But such is the mercantile system: it produces large distortions that are then very hard to remedy.

! His intuitive view is that all prices are affected, and that nothing real changes. Today we recognise that inflation does have some distorting effects because the new money enters the economy in particular places and that price rises spread out from there, with the differences causing real misallocations on the way.	 {problem with money: inflation}

// Cash can be stolen and property can be acquired by blackmailing the owner.  

! "No society can surely be flourishing and happy, of which the far greater part of the members are poor and miserable."

 - Current system does not take in to account the base standard of living nor does it take in to account determinism. (Wealth disparity) *Give reference to the old people needing to work just for basic needs.  

 - While competition certainly has its advantages, let’s not be ignorant of the consequences of hyper-competition. The main problem we are concerned with here is instability. While competition can help companies thrive, if not controlled, it can lead to poor work-life balance, bankruptcy, dissolving and illegal activities for keeping companies alive.  

! The specific rules on these tax concessions are so complicated that they do distort things, and often invite fraud. {complexity problem} 

! “There is no art which one government sooner learns of another than that of draining money from the pockets of the people.” 

! Capital is very mobile, and owners can avoid tax simply by moving their capital abroad. And that robs domestic industry of the capital it needs to grow. {problems with transferability and border-problems} 

! “The proprietor of stock is properly a citizen of the world, and is not necessarily attached to any particular country. He would be apt to abandon the country in which he was exposed to a vexatious inquisition, in order to be assessed to a burdensome tax, and would remove his stock to some other country where he could either carry on his business, or enjoy his fortune more at his ease.” 

! “The man whose whole life is spent in performing a few simple operations, of which the effects too are, perhaps, always the same, or very nearly the same, has no occasion to exert his understanding, or to exercise his invention in finding out expedients for removing difficulties which never occur.” <On the problems with repititve work.>

-“The bourgeoisie, by the rapid improvement of all instruments of production, by the immensely facilitated means of communication, draws all, even the most barbarian, nations into civilization. The cheap prices of its commodities are the heavy artillery with which it batters down all Chinese walls, with which it forces the barbarians' intensely obstinate hatred of foreigners to capitulate. It compels all nations, on pain of extinction, to adopt the bourgeois mode of production; it compels them to introduce what it calls civilization into their midst, i.e., to become bourgeois themselves. In one word, it creates a world after its own image.” {Makes people be in accordance with what they think is “civilized”, makes them do things which they wouldn’t have if not for money.}

*Go on to give an idea of how deep the effects of such and such problems are. *Give reference to the fight club quote. *Give reference to Arthur Anderson and Enron story. 

</RD>