Q. Will the RP be a global currency?
A. Since a RP reflects the performance of the economic system, it does not make much sense that the currency in USA should suffer from inefficiencies in Japan and vice versa. Although, ideally, making the currency global can cause countries to cooperate, as the economic development of one country will matter to other countries as well. Realistically though, I do not think we have evolved to that stage yet, and to avoid making the deployment of Rewardism difficult, it make sense to keep the currency specific to each country.
  One can then ask, “Well, why not apply the same principle to states, and even cities?” And indeed, they would be right to ask such a question; however, we can practically follow this middle path, where states and cities would cooperate with the states and cities of their own respective country. It is debatable, however, whether the RP should be specific to a country or an even bigger region, like a continent. This can be decided by further discussions with the experts and what the countries want.

Q. How would the initial value of the RP of a country be decided?
A: The initial value of the RP of a country would be pegged to the value of the country’s currency at the point of conversion. This way, it would be simpler to decide how to set budgets and prices, as people would be basically dealing in the same currency as before but with different characteristics. Furthermore, this would help capture the value of the country’s currency with respect to other currencies. Arguably, the currency of the country already reflects the performance of the currency, which can be used as a reference point for subsequent changes to the value of the currency.

Q. What would cause the value of a RP to change?
A. Since the value of a RP reflects the performance of the economic system in the region specific to that RP, the change in performance should be reflected in the updated RP. Indeed, this is quite different from the traditional way a currency’s value changes; and yes, it does mean that the RP would be, more or less, immune from the whimsical market’s forces of supply and demand. This is likely to make the value of the RP more meaningful and stable.
  Recall that at the reference point, the RP is equal to the Original Currency (OC)—the currency being used before the conversion. If the performance of the economic system in the region improves by 25%, we can say that the RP is now worth 1.25 times the older RP (RPo). Likewise, if the performance of the economic system in the region decreases by 25%, we can say that the RP is worth 0.75 times the (RPo). So, the formula for each subsequent period after the conversion point is:

  RPu = (1 + σ) * RPo, (1)

  Since, the RPo in the first year is equal to OC, the formula for the first update can be written as:

  RPu = (1 + σ) * OC (2)

  Taking (1) and (2) into account, we can derive a general formula for the nth update:

  nth RPun = (1 + σ(n)) * (1 + σ(n-1)) * ... * (1 + σ(n-n)) * OC  (3)

  Where:
    RPu = the updated RP,
    RPu(n) = the nth updated RP,
    RPo = the RP right before the update,
    σ      = the change in performance in the period to which the update relates,
    σ(n)   = the nth change in performance in the (n)th period, and
    OC   = the orignal currency that was in place before the conversion to Rewardism.

  To clarify things a bit, the reference point will help us decide what the average performance is. This average performance would have to be updated each period, so in other words, a moving average will be used. This makes sense because the updated RP would already have accounted for the improvement in performance relative to the previous period. So, the updated RP should only be updated if there is further improvement, or deterioration, in performance.
  To measure performance, a lot of metrics can be incorporated so that the measurements account for a broad range of factors. Performance appraisal should account for factors such as sustainability or long-term factors, survival or short-term factors, purchasing power, economic activity, rate of meeting the target Points, employment rate, reviews, etc. This would ensure that the currency not only reflects the short-term performance in a region, but also the long-term implications for the world.
 The formula for calcuting the σ for a period can be:

  σ = w1F1 + w2F2 + ... + w(n)F(n)

  Where:
    σ = the change in performance in the period to which the update relates,
    wn = the weight of the nth factor,
    Fn = the percentage change in performance with respect to the nth factor, and
    the sum of all weights = 1.

  This way, the economists can make countries focus on factors they think are very important. For example, if they believe that the environmental factors need to have more weight than short-term factors, they can easily increase the weight of the environmental factors, and the rest will happen kind of automatically. The weight of each performance factor will be pre-defined globally to keep currencies comparable, and to avoid cherrypicking weights for increasing the σ.

  To understand how exchange values will be calculated, let us look at some examples.

  Example 1: RP to CP
  Let RP be the new currency of a Rewardist country, and let CP be the currency of a Capitalist country. Assume that before the conversion, the OC to CP rate was 100 OC to 1 CP. So, you could buy 1 CP with a 100 OC. At the conversion point, you would be able to buy 1 CP for a 100 RPs. Now, assume that the performance in the first period increases by 25%. The RPu is now worth 1.25RPo. So, assuming that the rate of OC to CP has not changed, you would now be able to buy 1 CP for just 80 RPs.

  t0: 1 RP = 1 OC = (1 / 100 CP) = 0.01 CP,
  t1: 1 RPu = 1.25 RPo = 1.25 OC = (1.25 * 0.01) CP = 0.0125 CP,
  t1: 1 CP = (1 / 0.0125) RP = 80 RPu.

  It seems like the maths does not check out, as in the first line of t1 1 RPu = 1.25 RPo, so 80 RPu should be equal to 80 divided by 1.25, i.e., 64 RPo. However, that’s not how you approach this problem. You should think that 1 RPu would buy you 1.25 RPo, so 80 RPu would buy you 80 multiplied by 1.25, i.e., 100 RPo. That way you would realize that the math does actually checks out.

  If, for whatever reason, the rate of OC to CP changes over time to, say, 120 OC to 1 CP, then:

  t1: 1 RPu = 1.25 RPo = 1.25 OC = 1.25 * (1 / 120) CP = 0.0104 CP,
  t1: 1 CP = (1 / 0.0104) RP = 96 RPu.

  It should be noted that, since the RPs are potentially infinite and are only accessible through authorized companies, so, since they are, more or less, immune from the effects of supply and demand, the rate of OC to CP can only really change if the value of CP changes, as CP is unlikely to be immune from the effects of supply and demand. So, if due to inflation in the Capitalist country, the value of CP drops, then the rate of OC to CP would have to be adjusted accordingly.

  Example 2: RPa to RPb
  Let RPa and RPb be the currencies of the Rewardist countries A and B respectively. Assume that at the point of conversion of the latest Rewardist country, the RPa to RPb rate was 100 RPa to 1 RPb. If the σ of both countries increases by 25%, then their relative peformance has not changed. Therfore, the rate would remain as 100 RPa to 1 RPb. However, if A’s performance increases by 25%, and B’s performance remains the same, then, the rate would become 80 RPa to 1 RPb.

  If A’s σ is +25% and B’s σ is -25%, then:

  1 RPbu = 0.75 RPbo
  1 RPau = 1.25 RPao
  100 RPao = 1 RPbo --> 1 RPau = 1.25 * (1 / 100) RPbo = 0.0125 RPbo
  1 RPbo = ( 1 / 0.0125) RPau = 80 RPau
  1 RPbu = 0.75 * 80 RPau = 60 RPau

  So, the rate would become 60 RPa to 1 RPb. Here, you might notice that the relative value of one country’s RP increases by the decrease in the value of the RP, or other currency, of another country. This can lead to hostile behavior between countries; therefore, ideally, there should be one global currency so that each country cares about the performance of all other countries. However, I realize that the probability of that happening is quite low, especially initially.

Q. How will the authorized exchange companies benefit from providing their services?
A. Let us refer to an authorized exchange company as AEC. Assume that an AEC has 1M of currency XP, and by default it does not own any RP at the start. Let us say that the rate of XP to RP is 100:1. However, the AEC would buy RPs at the rate of 98 XP to 1 RP, and it would sell RPs at the rate of 102 XP to 1 RP. To buy XP 10,000, a client would have to burn 102.04 RPs (10,000/98). This activity would be recorded in the profiles of both the client and the AEC. To buy 100 RPs from the AEC, the client would have to transfer XP 10,200 to the AEC, 100 RPs would automatically be credited to the client’s account. Again, the activity would be recorded in both the profiles.
  So, the AEC received 102.04 RPs first and gave XP 10,000. Then, it received 10,200 XP and gave 100 RPs. By these two transactions, the net profit is 2.04 RPs and 200 XP. There can be a more powerful AEC (PAEC), that deals with the standard AECs instead of regular clients, where the AEC can convert the XPs to RPs and vice versa. The PAEC will also keep its own profit. To account for reviews and other factors, the RPs will flow from a sub-account of the AEC to the AEC’s main account after some adjustments, just like the activity recorded with other companies is adjusted to derive a net amount of RPs for the investors. This also applies to the PAEC. No one will be allowed to interfere in the automatic process of handling RPs.

[Note: No RPs are needed in the sub-account of the AEC for a client to get them. It is an automated process where upon confirmation of receipt of the other currency, the client will automatically be rewarded. The AEC benefits because it provides its capital and services.]